#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[usenames,dvipsnames,svgnames,table]{xcolor}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\listings_params "basicstyle={\footnotesize\bfseries\ttfamily},breaklines=true,commentstyle={\itshape\color{OliveGreen}},keywordstyle={\bfseries\color{blue}},showstringspaces=true,stringstyle={\bfseries\color{RoyalPurple}}"
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Advanced radiation and remote sensing 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Lukas Kluft, Manfred Brath, Stefan Bühler
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Exercise No.
 4 – Atmospheric Brightness Temperature Spectra
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Run the Python script rtcalc.py to calculate the spectrum of atmospheric
 zenith opacity in the microwave spectral range for a midlatitude-summer
 atmosphere over a wet land surface.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Consider the zenith opacity spectrum to answer the following questions:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The spectrum includes four spectral lines.
 To which species do these lines belong? Play around with the absorption
 species selection in the Python script.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
We speak of window regions where the zenith opacity is below 1.
 Where are they?
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Brightness temperature is a unit for intensity.
 It is the temperature that a blackbody should have to give the same intensity
 as measured.
 Mathematically, the transformation between intensity in SI units and intensity
 in brightness temperature is done with the Planck formula.
 ARTS is capable to perform simulation in units of brightness temperature.
 Uncomment the code part for the second task.
 Investigate the brightness temperature spectra for different hypothetical
 sensors:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
A ground-based sensor looking in the zenith direction.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
A sensor on an airplane (
\begin_inset Formula $z=10\,\text{km}$
\end_inset

) looking in the zenith direction.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consider both opacity and brightness temperatures to answer the following
 questions: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In plot (a), why do the lines near 60 GHz and near 180 GHz appear flat on
 top? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
In plot (b), why is the line at 180 GHz smaller than before? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Describe the difference between plots (a) and (b).
 What happens to the lines, what happens to the background? Can you explain
 what you see? 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Make the same calculation as in task 2 for a satellite sensor (
\begin_inset Formula $z=800\,\text{km}$
\end_inset

) looking nadir (straight down).
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Standard
Answer following questions: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Explain the brightness temperature simulated in the window regions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Why does the line at 22 GHz look different from the others? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Investigate the the 
\begin_inset Formula $\text{O}_{2}$
\end_inset

 line at 
\begin_inset Formula $120\,\text{GHz}$
\end_inset

.
 Perform an ARTS simulation focused around that frequency.
 Why does the shape close to the center of the 
\begin_inset Formula $\text{O}_{2}$
\end_inset

 line at 
\begin_inset Formula $120\,\text{GHz}$
\end_inset

 looks so differently compared to the 
\begin_inset Formula $183\,\text{GHz}$
\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_body
\end_document
