#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[usenames,dvipsnames,svgnames,table]{xcolor}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\listings_params "basicstyle={\footnotesize\bfseries\ttfamily},breaklines=true,commentstyle={\itshape\color{OliveGreen}},keywordstyle={\bfseries\color{blue}},showstringspaces=true,stringstyle={\bfseries\color{RoyalPurple}}"
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Advanced radiation and remote sensing 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Lukas Kluft, Manfred Brath, Stefan Bühler
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Exercise No.
 3 – Line shape
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You can reuse the python script from the first exercise as a starting point
 for this exercise.
 First, copy the python script from the first exercise into the directory
 of exercise no.
 3:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset listings
inline false
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

$ cd ~/arts-lectures/exercises/03-line_shape/ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

$ cp ../01-rotational_spectra/absorption.py line_shape.py
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset VSpace medskip
\end_inset

The 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

calculate_absxsec
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 function within your python script calculates absorption cross sections
 and uses several keyword arguments as inputs, among other lineshape and
 forefactor.
 Please use 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Voigt_Kuntz6
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 as line shape and 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

VVH
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 as fore factor:
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Choose an individual line of for example water vapor and perform calculations
 over a restricted frequency range for a number of different pressures.
 Keep the temperature constant.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
How does the shape of the spectral lines change?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
By now we investigated absorption in terms of the absorption cross-section
 
\begin_inset Formula $\sigma$
\end_inset

.
 Another widely used unit is the absorption coeffiction 
\begin_inset Formula $\alpha$
\end_inset

.
 It takes the number concentration 
\begin_inset Formula $n$
\end_inset

 of the absorber into account:
\begin_inset Formula 
\begin{equation}
\alpha=n\cdot\sigma
\end{equation}

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
How does the absorption coefficient in the line centre change, if pressure
 is changed?
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
The full-width at half maximum (FWHM) is a measure of the line width.
 Typhon provides the function 
\emph on
typhon.spectroscopy.linewidth()
\emph default
 to calculate the FWHM for a given absorption spectrum.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Make a plot of this as a function of altitude (pressure) for a microwave
 line and an infrared absorption line.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_body
\end_document
