#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[usenames,dvipsnames,svgnames,table]{xcolor}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\listings_params "basicstyle={\footnotesize\bfseries\ttfamily},breaklines=true,commentstyle={\itshape\color{OliveGreen}},keywordstyle={\bfseries\color{blue}},showstringspaces=true,stringstyle={\bfseries\color{RoyalPurple}}"
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Advanced radiation and remote sensing 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Lukas Kluft, Manfred Brath, Stefan Bühler
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Exercise No.
 8 – Scattering
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Run the Python script scattering.py.
 This will simulate the radiation field at a frequency of 
\begin_inset Formula $229\,\text{GHz}$
\end_inset

 for an atmosphere with an ice cloud as well for clear-sky.
 Since this is a one-dimensional simulation (vertical dimension only), the
 calculated radiation fields have two dimensions: altitude (pressure) and
 zenith angle.
 The python script will plot the two radiation fields in the atmosphere
 at a zenith angle of 
\begin_inset Formula $180°$
\end_inset

.
 Here, the zenith angle describes the viewing direction.
 This means that you are looking at the upward directed radiation.
 The unit is brightness temperature.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Describe the difference between cloudy and clear-sky radiation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Guess where the ice cloud is located in the atmosphere based on the two
 radiation fields? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Explain the difference between cloudy and clear-sky radiation.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Change the zenith angle (
\family typewriter
zenith_angle
\family default
) from 
\begin_inset Formula $180°$
\end_inset

 to 
\begin_inset Formula $0°$
\end_inset

 and rerun the Python script.
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Describe and explain the difference.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Why is the brightness temperature at the top of the atmosphere so low?
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Now you will look at the radiation fields as a function of zenith angle
 (viewing direction) at a fixed pressure level.
 In the Python script, change the variable 
\family typewriter
pressure_level
\family default
 from 
\family typewriter
None
\family default
 to a pressure level in 
\begin_inset Formula $\left[\text{Pa}\right]$
\end_inset

, which is within the ice cloud and rerun the script.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Explain the shape of the radiation field without the cloud.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
How does the radiation field with the cloud differ? 
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Make the same calculation as in task 3 but with a less or a more dense ice
 cloud.
 To do that, you have to call the function 
\family typewriter
scattering()
\family default
 within your script with the argument 
\family typewriter
ice_water_path
\family default
 set to your desired value in 
\begin_inset Formula $\left[\text{kg}\,\text{m}^{-2}\right]$
\end_inset

.
 The ice water path is the vertically integrated mass content of ice.
 In task 3, the function 
\family typewriter
scattering()
\family default
 used a default value of 
\begin_inset Formula $2\,\text{kg}\,\text{m}^{-2}$
\end_inset

.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
