#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[usenames,dvipsnames,svgnames,table]{xcolor}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "lmodern" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine natbib
\cite_engine_type authoryear
\biblio_style plainnat
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 3cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 4cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\listings_params "basicstyle={\footnotesize\bfseries\ttfamily},breaklines=true,commentstyle={\itshape\color{OliveGreen}},keywordstyle={\bfseries\color{blue}},showstringspaces=true,stringstyle={\bfseries\color{RoyalPurple}}"
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Advanced radiation and remote sensing 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Lukas Kluft, Manfred Brath, Stefan Bühler
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Exercise No.
 2 – Vibration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You can reuse the python script from the first exercise to answer the questions
 on vibrational spectra.
 First, copy the python script from the last exercise into the directory
 of exercise no.
 2:
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset listings
inline false
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

$ cd ~/arts-lectures/exercises/02-vibrational_spectra/ 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

$ cp ../01-rotational_spectra/absorption.py vibration.py
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset VSpace medskip
\end_inset

Next, you have to adjust the frequency limits.
 For plotting in the infrared range, it is common to use wavenumber in 
\begin_inset Formula $\left[\text{cm}^{-1}\right]$
\end_inset

 instead of frequency.
 Adapt the plotting part of your python script accordingly.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Find the fundamental band of 
\begin_inset Formula $\text{CO}$
\end_inset

 and plot its spectrum.
 
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
Determine the band center frequency 
\begin_inset Formula $\hat{\nu}$
\end_inset

 from your plot.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
There is some “pollution” in the P-branch that comes from lines of 
\begin_inset Formula $^{13}\text{CO}$
\end_inset

.
 Recalculate the spectrum for the main isotopologue only by setting the
 species to 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

CO-26
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 What does the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

-26
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 suffix mean?
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\begin_layout Enumerate
Explore the spectrum of either 
\begin_inset Formula $\text{H}_{2}\text{O}$
\end_inset

 or 
\begin_inset Formula $\text{CO}_{2}$
\end_inset

.
 Can you find the different vibration bands? 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
